README.md, before:

# Farai Maxwell Marumbwa👋
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.python.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.r-project.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="R" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-R-276DC3?style=flat-square&logo=r&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://earthengine.google.com/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Google Earth Engine" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Google%20Earth%20Engine-34A853?style=flat-square&logo=google-earth&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server" target="_blank">
    <img alt="SQL" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-SQL-CC2927?style=flat-square&logo=microsoft-sql-server&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.docker.com/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Docker" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-46a2f1?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/features/actions" target="_blank">
    <img alt="GitHub Actions" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Github_Actions-2088FF?style=flat-square&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Node.js" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-43853d?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank">
    <img alt="JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=flat-square&logo=javascript&logoColor=black" />
  </a>
</p>


### Introduction  
Seasoned Geospatial Data Scientist with over 16 years of expertise in GIS and remote sensing service development, specializing in automation of GIS and remote sensing workflows, GIS software development, and leading GIS and remote sensing capacity-building initiatives. I possess extensive international experience in geospatial risk analysis and supporting countries across Asia, the Middle East, Europe, the Caribbean, and Africa with organizations such as UNICEF, UN-WFP, NASA, the European Union, African Union. 


<h3>Education</h3>
<table>
  <thead align="center">
    <tr border: none;>
      <td><b>🧑‍🎓 PhD Environment & Society</b></td>
      <td><b>🌍 Master in Environmental Policy and Planning </b></td>
      <td><b>🗺️ BA Hons Geography</></td>
    </tr>
  </table>



### Skills and Expertise  
- **Programming**: Skilled in Python, R, Google Earth Engine (GEE) and version control with Git.  
- **Data Science & Analytics**: Advanced skills in Power BI, Tableau, and R Shiny, along with mobile data collection via ODK.  
- **Project Management**: Proven track record in managing EU and USAID-funded projects.  
- **Food Security & Humanitarian GIS Applications**: Proficient in leveraging GIS and Remote Sensing for food security, environmental monitoring, and humanitarian initiatives.  
- **Disaster Risk & Climate Resilience**: Strategic in implementing **Anticipatory Action, Parametric Insurance, and Contingency Planning for risk mitigation.  
- **Technical Writing & Research**: Accomplished in scientific publication writing and technical documentation for knowledge dissemination.  


### My latest research
- **UNDRR Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction** - *Mapping Resilience for the Sustainable Development Goals **(2023)**. Contributing author from UNICEF HQ. [DOI linkL](https://www.undrr.org/media/88718/download)
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2020)** *An assessment of remote sensing-based drought index over different land cover types in southern Africa*, International Journal of Remote Sensing, 41:19, 7368-7382. Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2020.1757783).
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2020)** *Geospatial analysis of meteorological drought impact on southern Africa biomes*, International Journal of Remote Sensing, Volume 42, 2021 - Issue 6.Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2020.1851799).
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2019)** *Analysis of spatio-temporal rainfall trends across southern African biomes between 1981 and 2016*, Physics and Chemistry of the Earth, Parts A/B/C.Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pce.2019.10.004).
  
- **Archer, Emma Rosa Mary; Landman, Willem Adolf; Tadross, Mark Alexander; Malherbe, Johan; Weepener, Harold; Maluleke, Phumzile; Marumbwa, Farai Maxwell, 2017** *Understanding the evolution of the 2014–2016 summer rainfall seasons in southern Africa: Key lessons*, Climate Risk Management, pp.0–6. Available at: [DOI link](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.crm.2017.03.006).


### GitHub Activity

<p align="left">

  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=maxmarumbwa&layout=compact&langs_count=6&theme=radical" height="140">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=maxmarumbwa&show_icons=true&theme=radical" height="140">
</p>

### Interests and Hobbies
- Chess
- Walking

### Social Media Links
[![ResearchGate Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-farai%20marumbwa-00CCBB?style=flat-square&logo=researchgate&logoColor=white)](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Farai-Marumbwa)
[![LinkedIn Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linkedin-farai%20marumbwa-0A66C2?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/farai-maxwell-marumbwa-01328529/)
[![https://x.com/FMarumbwa](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-Follow%20%40fmarumbwa-%231DA1F2?logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/fmarumbwa)
[![https://www.facebook.com/farai.marumbwa.7/](https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-Profile-%231DA1F2?logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://www.facebook.com/farai.marumbwa.7/)

Commit message:

Revise introduction in README for updated experience
Updated professional summary to reflect 17+ years of experience and expertise in Earth-observation-driven decision support systems.

README.md, after:

# Farai Maxwell Marumbwa👋
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.python.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.r-project.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="R" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-R-276DC3?style=flat-square&logo=r&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://earthengine.google.com/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Google Earth Engine" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Google%20Earth%20Engine-34A853?style=flat-square&logo=google-earth&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server" target="_blank">
    <img alt="SQL" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-SQL-CC2927?style=flat-square&logo=microsoft-sql-server&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.docker.com/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Docker" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-46a2f1?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/features/actions" target="_blank">
    <img alt="GitHub Actions" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Github_Actions-2088FF?style=flat-square&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Node.js" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-43853d?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank">
    <img alt="JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=flat-square&logo=javascript&logoColor=black" />
  </a>
</p>


### Introduction  
Geospatial Data Scientist and Full-Stack Geospatial Engineer with 17+ years of experience designing and deploying Earth-observation-driven decision support systems for climate risk, drought early warning, food security, and disaster preparedness. Expert in satellite time-series analytics (GEE, Python, R), spatial databases (PostGIS), and web-based geospatial platforms (Django, Flask, REST APIs, Leaflet, GeoServer). Proven track record delivering national and regional early warning systems for governments and international organizations (World Bank, UNICEF, WFP, SADC), bridging science, engineering, and policy into operational products.


<h3>Education</h3>
<table>
  <thead align="center">
    <tr border: none;>
      <td><b>🧑‍🎓 PhD Environment & Society</b></td>
      <td><b>🌍 Master in Environmental Policy and Planning </b></td>
      <td><b>🗺️ BA Hons Geography</></td>
    </tr>
  </table>



### Skills and Expertise  
- **Programming**: Skilled in Python, R, Google Earth Engine (GEE) and version control with Git.  
- **Data Science & Analytics**: Advanced skills in Power BI, Tableau, and R Shiny, along with mobile data collection via ODK.  
- **Project Management**: Proven track record in managing EU and USAID-funded projects.  
- **Food Security & Humanitarian GIS Applications**: Proficient in leveraging GIS and Remote Sensing for food security, environmental monitoring, and humanitarian initiatives.  
- **Disaster Risk & Climate Resilience**: Strategic in implementing **Anticipatory Action, Parametric Insurance, and Contingency Planning for risk mitigation.  
- **Technical Writing & Research**: Accomplished in scientific publication writing and technical documentation for knowledge dissemination.  


### My latest research
- **UNDRR Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction** - *Mapping Resilience for the Sustainable Development Goals **(2023)**. Contributing author from UNICEF HQ. [DOI linkL](https://www.undrr.org/media/88718/download)
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2020)** *An assessment of remote sensing-based drought index over different land cover types in southern Africa*, International Journal of Remote Sensing, 41:19, 7368-7382. Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2020.1757783).
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2020)** *Geospatial analysis of meteorological drought impact on southern Africa biomes*, International Journal of Remote Sensing, Volume 42, 2021 - Issue 6.Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2020.1851799).
  
- **Marumbwa FM, Cho MA, and Chirwa PW. (2019)** *Analysis of spatio-temporal rainfall trends across southern African biomes between 1981 and 2016*, Physics and Chemistry of the Earth, Parts A/B/C.Available at: [DOI link](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pce.2019.10.004).
  
- **Archer, Emma Rosa Mary; Landman, Willem Adolf; Tadross, Mark Alexander; Malherbe, Johan; Weepener, Harold; Maluleke, Phumzile; Marumbwa, Farai Maxwell, 2017** *Understanding the evolution of the 2014–2016 summer rainfall seasons in southern Africa: Key lessons*, Climate Risk Management, pp.0–6. Available at: [DOI link](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.crm.2017.03.006).


### GitHub Activity

<p align="left">

  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=maxmarumbwa&layout=compact&langs_count=6&theme=radical" height="140">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=maxmarumbwa&show_icons=true&theme=radical" height="140">
</p>

### Interests and Hobbies
- Chess
- Walking

### Social Media Links
[![ResearchGate Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-farai%20marumbwa-00CCBB?style=flat-square&logo=researchgate&logoColor=white)](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Farai-Marumbwa)
[![LinkedIn Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linkedin-farai%20marumbwa-0A66C2?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/farai-maxwell-marumbwa-01328529/)
[![https://x.com/FMarumbwa](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-Follow%20%40fmarumbwa-%231DA1F2?logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/fmarumbwa)
[![https://www.facebook.com/farai.marumbwa.7/](https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-Profile-%231DA1F2?logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://www.facebook.com/farai.marumbwa.7/)
